What is Kubernetes?
Kubernetes is also known as 'k8s'. This word comes from the Greek language, which means a pilot or helmsman.
Kubernetes is an extensible, portable, and open-source platform designed by Google in 2014. It is mainly used to automate the deployment, scaling, and operations of the container-based applications across the cluster of nodes. It is also designed for managing the services of containerized apps using different methods which provide the scalability, predictability, and high availability.

It is actually an enhanced version of 'Borg' for managing the long-running processes and batch jobs. Nowadays, many cloud services offer a Kubernetes-based infrastructure on which it can be deployed as the platform-providing service. This technique or concept works with many container tools, like docker, and follows the client-server architecture.

Key Objects of Kubernetes
Following are the key objects which exist in the Kubernetes:

Pod

It is the smallest and simplest basic unit of the Kubernetes application. This object indicates the processes which are running in the cluster.

Node

A node is nothing but a single host, which is used to run the virtual or physical machines. A node in the Kubernetes cluster is also known as a minion.

Service

A service in a Kubernetes is a logical set of pods, which works together. With the help of services, users can easily manage load balancing configurations.

ReplicaSet

A ReplicaSet in the Kubernetes is used to identify the particular number of pod replicas are running at a given time. It replaces the replication controller because it is more powerful and allows a user to use the "set-based" label selector.

Namespace

Kubernetes supports various virtual clusters, which are known as namespaces. It is a way of dividing the cluster resources between two or more users.

In kubrntes architecture is primary node agent that runs on each node with in cluster 
it is responsible for managing containers on that node by ensuring they are running according to the provided pod specifications
it acts as intermediary between Kubernetes control plain and individual worker nodes to executes containeraized applications
it recives instructions from control plain and communicates with the container runtime to start to stop monitor and check container operations on the notes
